# hawk-dove-uncertainty
This code refers to simulations of Hawk-Dove games where more and less intelligent agents interact. This project is part of a chapter of my PhD thesis.

The code part must be insert in the dedicated part of NetLogo, while the in the interface part I insert the commands to setup the interface functional to the code. Other plots and monitors are optional.

The general aim of the code is calculate the composition of the population (how many non intelligent players and how many intelligent ones) and their strategies after they interact repeatedly over Hawk-Dove games. At each period, with a probability (G_1_like) a Hawk-Dove with mild conflict is played and with another probability a Hawk-DOve with harsh conflict is played. A first process determines how non intelligent players and intelligent players behave: non intelligent players conform to what the majority is doing at a given step, while intelligent players best reply at each step to the current distribution of strategies (this procedures are called respectively, conform and playMBR). Importantly, intelligent players distinguish between the two types of games (that s they adapt their strategy depending on whether there is a Hawk-Dove with mild or harsh conflict), while non intelligent ones only react to changes in the distribution of strategies.

As usually done in evolutionary game theory models, only a small fraction of players revise their strategy at each step, the others keep playing the strategy they were playing the previous period (such an assumption is called inertia, and it is specified in the code by the global prob-revision). Also in line with standard works in the literature, I assume that agents play randomly occasionally (mist-prob). In the so called evolutionary process, I evaluate the fitness of each type of player over the last "fit-mem" periods: the type of players that have the highest fitness replicates of 100 units, while the other decreases of 100 units. Importantly, since playing intelligently requires an effort, intelligent players pay a cognitive cost in their fitness (kappa). The assessment of the fitnesses happens each 100 periods, but one can choose different length, as long as the assessment of fitnesses happens at a slower rate than the change of strategies (that happens each period). This assumption is justified by the fact that changing the way a player behave requires a further cognitive step than just changing their strategy. 

Further details on the model can be find in the paper.   
